THE KEY OF SOLOMON THE KING
(Clavicula Salomonis)

translated by S. Liddell MacGregor Mathers, 1889

BOOK I

Chapter I. The Glory of God

1. The wisdom of Solomon the King, the son of David,
is the foundation of all knowledge.
2. For God hath given him wisdom and understanding
exceeding much, and largeness of heart like the sand that is on the sea shore.
3. And God gave unto Solomon wisdom and understanding
exceeding much, and largeness of heart.
4. O my son, give me thine heart,
and let thine eyes observe my ways.
5. For the Lord searcheth all hearts,
and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
6. If thou seek him, he will be found of thee;
but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.
7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
8. A wise man will hear, and will increase learning.
9. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way,
before his works of old.
10. I was set up from everlasting,
from the beginning, or the earth was ever.
11. When there were no depths, I was brought forth;
when there were no fountains abounding with water.
12. Before the mountains were settled,
before the hills was I brought forth:
13. While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields,
nor the highest part of the dust of the world.
14. When he prepared the heavens, I was there:
when he set a compass upon the face of the depth:
15. When he established the clouds above:
when he strengthened the fountains of the deep:
16. When he gave to the sea his decree,
that the waters should not pass his commandment:
When he appointed the foundations of the earth:
17. Then I was by him, as one brought up with him:
and I was daily his delight,
rejoicing always before him;
18. Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth;
and my delights were with the sons of men.

Chapter II. The Principle and Excellence of the Sacred Art

1. The Sacred Art of Magick is the art of producing
effects beyond the course of Nature.
2. It is the Divine Science, the Science of the Saints,
the Science of the Just.
3. Without it, all other sciences are vain and useless.
4. For the Magick of the Wise men is the true way,
the true path to the Kingdom of Heaven.
5. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
6. The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord,
and the end of wisdom is the love of the Lord.
7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
8. The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord,
and the end of wisdom is the love of the Lord.
9. He that loveth correction loveth knowledge:
but he that hateth reproof is brutish.
10. A wise woman buildeth her house:
but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.
11. He that walketh uprightly walketh surely:
but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.

[Full grimoire texts are loaded via the corpus-update workflow from sacred-texts.org and archive.org]
