CORPHERMETICUM

The Divine Pymander of Hermes Trismegistus

Book I. The Shepherd of Men

1. It chanced once as I sat and thought of the things that are,
my spirit was caught away, and as it seemed to me,
I was borne upward through infinite space,
and left the solid earth behind.

2. I became a stranger to the world,
a man without a country,
a thing without a name.

3. Then a great Voice spoke to me,
a Voice without a body, saying:
"What would you hear and see?
What would you learn and know?"

4. I said: "Who are you?"
And the Voice said:
"I am Pymander, the Mind of the Supreme.
I know what you wish,
and I am with you everywhere."

5. I said: "I wish to learn the things that are,
and understand their nature,
and know God.
O how I long to hear these things!"

6. Then the Voice said:
"Keep in your mind what you wish to learn,
and I will teach you."

7. But as he spoke, his form changed,
and in an instant all things opened before me,
and I saw an infinite Vision.

8. All was changed into Light,
a mild and joyous Light.
And in the Light I saw the Mind that sustained all things.

9. But soon there came a Darkness in the lower part of the Light,
a terrible and loathsome Darkness, which coiled and writhed
like a serpent.

10. And the Darkness was changed into a sort of Nature,
which sent forth smoke from the Darkness,
like the smoke of a fire.

11. And the Nature sent forth a cry without articulate sound,
like the Voice of the Sun.

12. But from the Light above there leaped down a pure
and holy Word, which took its stand upon the luminous Nature,
and the cry of the Darkness was raised to the heights.

13. And the Word of God took its stand upon the luminous Nature,
and united itself with it, for it was of the same substance.

14. And the Nature being thus united with the Word,
and having no form of its own, became a living creature.

15. And from the Nature there came forth the four elements,
Fire, Air, Water, and Earth, which were in it,
and the Nature was the World.

16. And God the Father of all things,
the Monad, the Light, the Father of all,
created Man in his own image.

17. And Man, seeing his counterpart in the water,
loved it, and wished to dwell therein.

18. And the will of Man became the act,
and he dwelt in the formless Nature.

19. And the Nature, having received the beloved,
coiled herself about him, and they were made one.

20. And for this cause Man, unlike any other creature on earth,
is twofold: mortal because of the body,
immortal because of the essential Man.

— translation by John Everard, 1650
